Add attribution metadata policy for BIG_DATA (#610)
MetOffice/simulation-systems: source/Development/testdata.rst

Reviewer: It would be better to describe these instructions as applying to all Met Office managed systems.  That would also cover any test data which has to be copied to other platforms, e.g. jules data on jasmin, as well as UM AUX, Socrates spectral etc.

Author: Done.

.. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    (c) Crown copyright Met Office. All rights reserved.
    The file LICENCE, distributed with this code, contains details of the terms
    under which the code may be used.
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _testdata:

Adding Test Data
================

.. note::

    This page is a placeholder for information about test data. It is not yet
    complete and will be updated in due course.

    *The instructions here are Met Office specific, other sites may manage their
    test data differently.*

.. important:: **Attribution Metadata Policy**

    If the change requires a new or updated file in ``LFRIC_DATA_DIR`` then you
    will need to work with the Information Asset Owner (IAO) to ensure that data

>     in ``LFRIC_DATA_DIR`` must include clear attribution and licence metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    in ``LFRIC_DATA_DIR`` includes clear attribution and licence metadata.
```

>     Where possible, this should follow existing UM ``ANCILDIR`` conventions (`see

Reviewer: Better not to imply that this is optional:

```suggestion
    This should follow existing UM ``ANCILDIR`` conventions (`see
```

Author: For LFRic, we prefer to include the metadata and license as NetCDF global attributes rather than storing them separately. This approach does not currently apply to UM ANCILDIR.

For non-NetCDF LFRic files, we follow UM ANCILDIR convention.

Reviewer: On balance, it would be better to remove this entire pull-out box and put the information in the Licences section.  The different standards for netCDF and non-netCDF files could then be specified separately to make each point clearer.

I think it would also be useful to remove the comment about the LFRic data directory, because this policy applies regardless of where the files are being installed.

    below <prerequisites-section_>`_), with ``.attribution`` and ``.license``
    files or equivalent NetCDF **global attributes** (at least, ``references``,
    ``license``, ``source``, and ``history``). Attribution must reflect the
    original data source and be provided by the data creators before deployment,
    share, or distribution.

    It is treated as an **Information Asset / licensing requirement**, not just
    a best practice.

For UM related datasets, please Email the `MIAO team <mailto:miao@metoffice.gov.uk>`_
to discuss the best way to share the data.

.. _prerequisites-section:

Prerequisites
-------------

Before adding test data, you should have a good understanding of the change you
are making and the tests you will be adding. You should also have a good
understanding of the codebase and the testing framework you will be using.

Licenses
~~~~~~~~

> All files will require a licence and a record of where they have come from, both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All files require a licence and a record of where they have come from, both
```

for legal and auditing purposes. In your request please mention how the files
was generated/produced and where as well as what licence it has, and what the

> conditions of the licence are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for legal and auditing purposes. In your request please describe where and how the
data was generated, and the terms and conditions of its licence.
```

Before files can be deployed we must get IAO approval, we cannot do this without

> knowing the licence of the files to be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before any files can be deployed, they must be approved by an IAO and this cannot be done
without information about the licencing terms.
```

Metadata
~~~~~~~~

> Any file requirements should be recorded in or alongside the files being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All file requirements should be recorded in or alongside the files being
```

deployed.

Note that if a source file has a licence that imposes requirements on derived
works, then an ancillary file (or an intermediate file used to generate an

> ancillary) does count as a derived work for the purpose of recording metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a source file has a licence that imposes requirements on derived
works, then any ancillary file (or an intermediate file used to generate an
ancillary) counts as a derived work for the purposes of recording metadata.
```

In cases where a file has been generated from multiple sources, it should be

> made clear where each licence/attribution/acknowledgement has come from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where a file has been generated from multiple sources, the liccences
must be compatible with each other and it should be made clear where each licence/attribution/acknowledgement has come from.
```

Author: suggestion applied with correction to typo.

NetCDF Files
^^^^^^^^^^^^

NetCDF files should have the relevant metadata included in the file itself.
The metadata should include the following information:

> * If there is a licence, it should be in a ``license`` global attribute as per

Reviewer: All files should have a licence, which implies that all netCDF file must have a license attribute

```suggestion
* The licence should be in a ``license`` global attribute as per
```

  `CF conventions <https://cfconventions.org/Data/cf-conventions/cf-conventions-1.11/cf-conventions.html#description-of-file-contents/>`_.

* If there is an organisation attribution requirement, it should be in the
  ``institution`` global attribute (again, as per CF).

* If there is any other attribution requirement (e.g. for an individual), it
  should be in the ``acknowledgement`` global attribute (again, as per ACCD).

* If there are restrictions on usage (e.g. "research only"), these should be in
  a ``restrictions`` global attribute.

Other Files
^^^^^^^^^^^

* Licence should be in an accompanying plain text file with the same name as the
  data file, but with a ``.license`` suffix.

* Attribution should be in an accompanying plain text file with the same name as
  the data file, but with a ``.attribution`` suffix.

* Restrictions on usage (e.g. "research only") should be in an accompanying
  plain text file with the same name as the data file, but with a
  ``.restrictions`` suffix.

If you have questions about the process or concerns about the provenance of the
data you want to include, please engage with the IAO as early as possible to

> prevent delays to your change later on.

Reviewer: This should be at the start of the document not the end.

It should also include an explicit statement that changes which depend on unlicenced data or data with an unknown provenance will not be approved until problems can be resolved.  This will give greater clarity to both developers and reviewers.

Author: Done.

> Licenses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Licencing
```

~~~~~~~~

All files require a licence and a record of where they have come from, both
for legal and auditing purposes. In your request please describe where and how the
data was generated, and the terms and conditions of its licence.

Before any files can be deployed, they must be approved by an IAO and this cannot be done

> without information about the licencing terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All files require a licence and a record of where they have come
from, both for legal and auditing purposes. In your request
please describe where and how the data was generated, and the
terms and conditions of its licence.

Before any files can be deployed, they must be approved by an IAO
and this cannot be done without information about the licencing
terms. It is your responsibility as a developer to obtain this
approval.

Where the data is in netCDF format, it should use the global
attributes described in the section below; data files in other
formats should follow the existing UM ANCILDIR conventions.
Attribution must reflect the original data source and be provided
by the data creators before deployment, share, or distribution.
```
